A couple of things about the court trip that I want
to reflect on. You know, I'm trying to remember
whether it was Rice or some other place. That
freshman court trip to Houston, I assume it was
Rice, because I don't even know if it was Rice. On
Friday, we all went in three cars. But there's
quite
some sisters in this. This is about 35 people. And
then there was some people from . And it was, I'll
forever not know where it was. But it was somewhere
out in the 1960s, Humboldt area. uh,
house out in the family woods that this wife's
sister and young husband lived in. And all of a
sudden, 30, 50, 40 city head cadets showed up with
him. And
it
was,
you know, I'll never forget it, because I can't
imagine how anyone, and these were just a young
couple, probably not much older than his age, who
found a way to feed all of us and put us all down and we
slept in their house. And it was the next night
after, the real story I want to share is, during
the, at halftime, the majorette for Rice came off
the field and grabbed the saber of the OD. And the
stands, within three to five seconds, emptied.
I've never seen, it was like a mass of humanity
simply moving out of the stands. And then, of
course, the police, and then there were a few
strategic blows struck, but it didn't last long.
But it was just, I will always remember how, there
was no order given, there was no, you know, someone
organized, it just empty onto the field. And of
course, the second deck was trying to get down. But
everybody on the first deck, which was mostly
students, went out there and tried to get a
licking. So there was always a little bit now, one
other thing we haven't talked about Haskell is
that the freshman class in the fall of 1963 was and
will be forever the mascot stealing champions of
the Southwest Conference. Oh, yes. Please do
describe it. We had a young fellow who was a
freshman over in one of the Air Force outfits whose
name shall not be revealed, and a sophomore who was
also sort of a ringleader who had planned all this
out. And we had a lousy football team in a pretty
lousy school when you think about it. So we had to do
some things to distinguish ourselves. And so they
set about to capture every mascot in the Southwest
Conference. The distinguishing ones I remember
is the one when they stole the horn frog Ended up,
the Horned Frog died. I mean, this is, you know,
there was one on every street corner in Fort Worth.
It wasn't like this was an endangered species in
those days, but this was a big deal. That was one
thing. Then, of course, the final blow was when
they stole Bevo. And, I mean, this, you think about
it, this is quite a, quite a feat. How could anybody
steal UT's mascot? I mean, I can't even imagine.
But anyway, they do. And they have the mascot here.
And it's pastured on some territory supposedly
owned by J.E. Lupo. And they gather us all in Guyon
Hall. And there's a big Texas Ranger with a hog leg
on his side making a speech. And one of the ending
remarks is, boys, I just want to remind you, we
still hang horse thieves in Texas. And I want the
damn steer back, and I want it back now. I mean, this
was a big deal. And I think Rutter and Dean
Hannigan, who was the dean of students, we were all
petrified of, were on the stage. And sure enough,
they negotiated. And I think it was probably
because Lupo figured he was in trouble. But they
did negotiate finally sometime before the game
started Bevo to be handed back to the proper
authorities. It was quite an occasion. Is this the
year they got one of the Baylor Bears and on the way
back the Bear tore up the car? They had
tranquilized the Bear. And apparently, while
they were hauling, and it was just a Cub, it wasn't
really a full, but on the way back, the
tranquilizer wore off, and they had to exit the
car, and the bear just tore the hell out of the
inside of that car. I mean, there were a lot of
stories like that. The SMU, they had a little
miniature pony, and I don't remember what it was
that happened to the pony, but they had to get a
veterinarian involved. And you know, when you
think about it, you had a few faculty members
around here that were probably in the know on some
of that going on, too. But I believe they stole
every mascot that year. Now, as far as you were
aware, was it the same guys doing? Yeah. I mean, I'm
sure all those guys must have flunked out of school
after the fall semester because they could not
have been going to class. They were spending full
time planning and executing the kidnappings. Oh,
another popular fellow on the campus at that time
was the old bulldog named Ranger. We called him
Rutter because obviously he was owned by
President Rutter's family and we would paint the
predicted score on the old bulldog's side and then
we would paint the real score and I'm believe to
this day he probably died of lead poisoning from
all the paint that had been put on him. But he had
some peculiar habits. One of the things he would do
is he would roam the campus and he would walk out in
front of your car if you were driving and wouldn't
move. And then if, you know, the only thing you
could do was let him in the car, drive around the
campus for a little while, and then let him out and
he was fine. But it was his way of getting a free ride
and having some fun. One night, and this was, I
don't know what year, but I came back to my dorm room
late, opened my door, and I heard something
snoring very loudly. And I flicked the light on and
there was Rutter in my bed. Some friends, quote,
friends, had given him a place to sleep for the
night. So, you know, you just find another place to
sleep and don't bother him anymore. Where would
you have found him? Where's that other place? Oh,
just in another, somebody else's bed that was out
of town. Oh, okay. I don't even remember. Let's
see, a general question. It just pops in my brain.
In your four years as an undergraduate, do you
remember anybody in the core area ever having any
problems about theft? No. You know, I don't even
remember locking my door. That's what I thought.
And your car? No, never. You know, it just didn't
happen. Now, we had, as I said a while ago, we had
some strange characters and sort of... I figure it
probably went like this. The judge said Army,
Marines, Texas A&M, or penitentiary. And they
ended up here as an alternative to those other
places. I don't know that for a fact, but I mean some
of the people that we had were of that ilk. But they
weren't thieves, and they were just strange
characters. Some of them you would probably
remember. Some of them are very successful
business people today. Rod Dockery would be a name
that comes to mind.
passionate would be an understatement. He was a
cruel, sadistic, mean individual. I don't think
he's that way today, but that's the way, and who
knows how he got that way. But you cut a wide swath
around Rod Dockery if you saw him on the campus. And
I mean, I kind of like the guy today. As you look
back, you end up being corps commander and one of
the true student leaders of that time. During your
freshman year, how did you begin to get headed in
that direction? Were there some people, some
events, some organizations? Well, you know, I
don't know. I mean, I'm not sure I can, I can't, I
don't think it's one of those things that's
predestined, and I don't think you, I don't really
think you think about it. I mean, frankly, my goal
in life was to be company commander. I mean, that
was, to me, that was the sort of pinnacle job. It's
where you could make the most difference in terms
of dealing with the kind of things we dealt with.
What happened, though, was, you know, a lot of what
you, in those days, it was built around a couple of
things. One, you had to have the grades, which
were, you know, I mean, they weren't the easiest
thing in the world. The second thing is you had to be
reasonably proficient at the military stuff,
uniform and drill and all of that. And then you know
whatever other ways you exhibited leadership,
people had to identify and pick up on. We didn't
think about it so much as because we were watching
ourselves. We didn't realize other people were
watching us too. But do you realize now that you
caught some people's attention as a freshman? No,
probably not. I mean I was best drill or best
freshman cadet or some sort of thing. You were?
Yeah. Okay. In my outfit. You know, and then you
compete for that. But most of that's doing right
face, left face, and whether your shoes are
shining and all that kind of stuff. It doesn't have
a lot to do with your leadership. And then as you go
through the ranks, people start beginning to
recognize, for example, And you know this story, I
think. I was first sergeant of my outfit my junior
year. To be corps commander, that's a strange
route. In fact, it's only happened one other time
that I know of, and that was year before last.
But what's the part of that that's untold is this,
that I interviewed for corps staff, and the
process was, as a junior on corps staff, you were
basically selected by the seniors then you had to
be verified by the commandant's office and all the
the trigon bureaucracy but what had happened was
we had a grade-wise we had a very poor class i was the
only one in my outfit that had the grades to be first
sergeant we the class ahead of us was worse than us
we had no one who had the grades to be company
commander So they were going to import a person
from another outfit to be company commander. So I
said, hey, I can't abandon the outfit. We're going
to end up with two people imported, the CO and the
first sergeant. That's not going to work. So I
basically decided to opt out of the competition
for being a junior on staff to be the first sergeant
in the outfit, which fundamentally was in keeping
with my targeted objectives anyway. But what
happened out of all that is I got exposed to some
people who could see, you know, who I was. And then
the couple of fellows that were on first brigade
staff and corps staff as seniors the year ahead of
me began to observe some behavior and stuff as a
first sergeant that said, hey, this guy might be
okay. And then in the senior year, you get put into
the system to be considered. And then it was a long
sort of crucible you went through to end up being
selected. Were the selection process interviews
started with cadets and then you ended up with all
the military types including the commandant at
that time a fellow named denzel baker
dean hannigan the dean of student life or whatever
dean of students and then the final interview was
rutter but that one basically the the the
interview with rutter was for him to just check off
By that time, you'd been scrubbed so many
different ways that it would be very rare for him to
say no. In all of those interviews, that review
process, in hindsight, what were the key talents,
the key areas that they were concerned about?
Well, I think there were two or three things. One is
we had had a fellow the year before as corps
commander who was, I didn't really know him that
well, but he was the son of an Air Force officer. He
was very, and don't forget now, we're in the
Vietnam era. He was very military, but not very,
his leadership qualities weren't all that great,
and he tended to be very aloof.
there were a lot of what I would consider to be sort
of cultural negative issues in the Corps at the
time. I mean, the people at the bottom were not
paying attention to the people at the top. And I
think one of the things that they were looking for
is someone who could relate to the cadets up and
down the line. Another thing was we had a... We were
split in our living between the Duncan and Sbiza
areas. We had a lot of conflict in the Sbiza area
with the civilian students. These were kids that
either started in the corps, and also remember
this is transitioning from required corps to
non-compulsory corps. And then we had a lot of
people that were coming in in those latter years
straight into the institution with no experience
in the corps. And there was a lot of jealousy and,
you know, not, I mean, it wasn't a revolution or
anything, but there were just fundamental things
like getting up in the morning and banging on the
trash cans as you marched to chow so you'd wake up
all the damn non-regs. You know, I mean, so it was a,
and they were looking for someone who could try to
manage through this environment we had, which was
converting from compulsory corps, all military,
had been very active in a lot of things that had
corps and civilian students involved in it.
Student government, ag activities, the
journalism program, which was primarily
civilians. There weren't very many corps.
Anyway, so I mean a lot of those things probably
factored in. Who knows? I mean, I don't know. why
they made the decision as you look back do you
remember because you obviously knew that you were
being you were one of the candidates yeah is there
any time when you felt hey that was a key that this
was a key step um
No. Reflecting
back on it, you didn't get an air for action report.
Nobody told you why you were selected. There were a
couple of other things I would point out. We had
about
three or four people in the ROTC program that were
young captains and majors. that were just out of
Vietnam, typically, and these guys were sharp,
they'd survived the experience, they had an eye
for somebody they thought could exhibit
leadership. One of those, interestingly, was a
fellow named Charlie Zip, who was one of the more
interesting characters I've ever known.
It was rumored that Zip had married somebody rich.
I don't know if that was true or not. I mean, I know
Margaret Ann now. I don't know her well. And Zip was
also the only guy in the ROTC that had ever had saber
drill. So he was the one that taught us how to do
saber drill. And he'd been to West Point, so he was
the big dog. But he was an immensely funny,
dry-witted guy was influential, and then a couple
of these young captains who were just fire eaters
that were influential, I think, in the decision
making. Did anybody coach you about the
interviews or anything? No, never even, was never
even thought about. Did you turn to anybody for
advice, did you? No. Right, how did you know, When
did you how and when did you learn the unfortunate
thing is you just had to be honest Yeah, you know you
said yeah, they ask you questions. You told them
what you thought right or wrong You know it's
because there wasn't any there was no school for
Going through this the interesting by the way. I
told you it was something interesting my freshman
fish camp buddy Barney fudge was the sergeant
major of the Corps and So he would have been the heir
apparent to be corps commander. That was always
the route. Whoever was sergeant major the junior
year typically was corps commander. So when I was
selected corps commander, you know, you then
chose your own staff, again, with final approval,
check off by the commandant. But I asked Barney to
be the core adjutant, which he accepted. And we
still remained fast friends, which if he were the
kind of guy that would have been sort of inwardly
thinking or egotistical, he would have said, go to
hell. I'm going to go do something else. But he
didn't do it. That was your fish hole lady? No, he
was my, I met him at Fish Camp. Remember, he was with
Burke Burnett, Texas, and we became friends at
Fish Camp, and then ended up being on staff
together. Now, in those days, remember, we're
transitioning out of all corps. We had Barney, who
was the president of the student body, or in those
days we called it president of the student senate,
and sort of by virtue of that was the nominal
president of the student body, the head Yale
leader. the head of the Ross Volunteers, one and
the same, also the head stack who built the
Bonfire, the president of the MSC, the editor of
the Agriculturalist, the editor of the
battalion. Tommy got canned, so he wasn't there.
Well, I mean, we had all of the leadership
positions basically embedded in corps staff. So,
you know, from a student perspective, you know, we
were really well integrated in terms of all of the
overall leadership. How were you informed that
you had been selected as corps commander? This is
an interesting story. That spring, my junior
year, among other courses I was taking was a very
difficult course called Animal Reproduction.
and one of the uh requirements in animal
reproduction was a weekly lab and one of the things
that we learned to do in that weekly lab was to
palpate cows to determine if they were pregnant
and how far along and i probably very hard on the
tape to explain the process but needless to say it
involves putting one of your upper appendages in
the rear end of a cow and i had been in this lab for
three hours with my uniform with what comes out of
the rear end of a cow placed in unsightly places i
get back to my dorm room uh late in the afternoon and
on my you know on the door there were You always had
your name and your class schedule and all that.
Well, stuck up there was a note saying, come to the
Commandant's office immediately. Well, I mean, I
didn't know for sure what it was, but I, you know, I
was far enough along to have a pretty good idea. But
I don't have a clean uniform. So I scramble around,
and I find a uniform, but my shoes are covered in cow
dung. So my junior old lady was a guy named Mac who
wore size 13 shoes. So I borrowed Mac's shoes, sort
of stuffed some stuff down in the toe, and hobbled
my way across campus, showed up at Colonel Baker's
office, walked in and saluted feeling a little
strange and he told me I'd been selected but I had a
couple more uh well no no no that was after the
rudder interview so I was anointed about what time
of the year was this um I would say it was probably
April It was late in the year. Now they make the
selections very early. But then it was probably
within a month of the end of school. All right, how
did your life change then, between then and the
next fall, beginning of the fall semester? The
first symptom was that I was, I had, and you'll love
this Haskell, I put off taking History 105 and 106.
I don't know why, but I just did. And so I was taking
History 105 my second semester junior year.
I think I had Alan Ashcraft, I can't remember, but I
had a good prof. And I went into the corps commander
selection with a high A. I finished that semester
with a low C because I don't think I ever went back to
class. And all I did was just take whatever exams I
had to take without doing any reading, without
taking any notes, and just, you know, kind of
bombed it. So it was, it became a time of intense
time commitment in terms of, you know, number one,
it would have been a little easier for someone who
was already on core staff, who sort of was, knew all
of the issues and techniques and people. But I had
to not only learn that, but I moved into an office in
Dorm 2, which was the headquarters of the Corps at
the time. Slept on a box spring and mattress on the
floor for that last month or so, just to get over and
get broken in. It was intense. Then that summer,
you go to camp? Went to Army ROTC camp. Joe Bush, who
was selected the outstanding cadet who was Class
66, but in the summer camp in that summer of 66,
later killed in the operation into Laos, as you may
recall. Joe Bush was in the outfit next to me. One
thing I do remember most about summer camp was we
had a TAC officer who was out of a little school in
Missouri, and I can't remember the name of it. But
he was a very poised and really good guy. But he
picked me out the first day and said, we've got to
have somebody to lead the parade. Now, he probably
knew of my selection down here, but, I mean, you
know, this was a little different. This is cadets
from all over the western United States. And where
are you? Fort Sill. Fort Sill. Which, another
thing. Not very far away from home. Not very far
from home. In fact, we made a deal, and I got the word
out to all the junior cadets I could find, telling
them if they'd like to stop off in henrietta at the
farm on the way up it was sort of like fish whites
experience we had probably 40 kids spend the night
with us on the way to and my dad and my mother cooked
he cooked barbecue and she cooked corn on the cob
and black eyed peas and everybody just had a
wonderful time Let's jump back a second. When you
learned that you'd been selected, how did you make
your parents aware of that news? You
know, there was one phone in the guardroom of dorm
two, and it was a pay phone. My guess is I wrote them a
letter. I mean, frankly, I don't remember. And to
them, this was good, but they really didn't
understand what it really meant. And so I don't
really remember. Right. So you went to summer
camp. Then did you go home or did you come back to
A&M?
I came back early. But I don't remember, I don't
think I came right after summer camp. And by the
way, I had, the spring of my junior year I had met my
bride. Typical Aggie courtship. My roommate,
again, was a fellow from Dallas and he and a lady
named Kitty Hudnall, a Delta Gamma from North
Texas, had been dating since high school, but it
was one of these deals where it was on again, off
again. And I was always ending up having to be the
father confessor and the cupid and trying to keep
the thing going. Well, Kitty was coming down one
weekend, called Mac or sent a note or whatever and
said, I've got a sorority friend on the rebound.
Anybody wants a date this weekend? And that was the
start. And she was from a large metropolitan area
also, wasn't she? Marlin. Yeah. And had gone to
North Texas, really following a future
sister-in-law that she didn't know was going to be
a sister-in-law at the time. They had gone up
there. So this first date was a football weekend?
Basketball. Played UT here. Can still take you to
the very seat that I sat in behind the and it was
because it was behind a girder, you know, old G.
Raleigh White up in that northwest corner. And we,
I had my corps uniform on, of course, and I had a
ribbon, and I can't remember what it was for, but it
had stripes, and so she was, We were in the back of a
65 Mustang driving around. Mac has borrowed it
from his mother and dad. And she said, what's that
ribbon? And I said, well, I'm the core barber. And
she said, oh. She didn't know what that meant, but
it must have been important. So we played this game
for quite some time. And then finally, she'd
probably hate for me to reveal that she was that
naive. In those days, either use yourself or
anyone else as an example, if you had a special
date, where did you take that special date here in
the College Station Bryan area? There was nothing
special. there weren't any, number one, you
didn't have any money, but number two, what little
you had. there wasn't a lot of places to go. You had
all of the following. You had Zarapi's Mexican
food, which was over near where, whatever that is
now, Albertson's, I guess. You had the Werman's,
downtown Bryan, which was where we went to eat the
first time my parents met my bride.
You had the chicken place, I can't remember the
name of it. It went to South College. Youngbloods.
Youngbloods.
The Texan in those days was the chicken fried
drive-in place. Ray Oldberger at the Circle.
There was a greasy spoon at Northgate. But, I mean,
you know, they were just another significant of a
times and that sort of thing. We're jumping
around. But there was a place at Northgate called
Lou Ann's Restaurant. A buddy of mine, our
sophomore year, stayed down here for six weeks,
went to school, and worked. The only problem was we
had to get by the first couple of weeks for the
paycheck to come, and we didn't have anything to
eat with. And we went to Lou Ann's restaurant and
made a deal with the owner that if he would give us a
meal ticket just to get by two weeks.